R E N J U   K O D I Y A T

+412.327.3344 · renju.ak@gmail.com · linkedin.com/in/renjuak/· San Francisco Bay Area, CA

PRODUCT LEADER

Customer-driven Product leader with over 12 years of experience leading the 0-1 strategy, development,
and deployment of cutting-edge features in customer workflows. Passionate about
transforming industries through solutions that drive productivity, customer engagement and business impact.
Known for hands-on leadership, deep technical acumen, and exceptional cross-functional collaboration.

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

Xero, Inc.
Head of Product, Insights & AI

January 2024 - Present

Led a 3 member PM team to drive Xero wide AI/ML efforts collaborating with product, engineering and data
science teams to evaluate and integrate AI models and develop product roadmaps, resulting in 6% market share. 

Led the team for the development of Xero's first GenAI-powered accounting co-pilot and chat assistant, which
reduced customer time spent on analyzing data by 67%.
Pioneered NLP-based search for Xero's accounting software,  saving users ~20% of their time when retrieving
transactions.
Spearheaded auto-reconciliation of bank feeds, saving customers approximately 9 hours per month on
average in manual reconciliation tasks.
Established AI labs to accelerate innovation, to build early-stage AI features and driving  adoption resulting in
7 successfully incubated ideas.  

Intuit
Lead Product Manager

August 2019 - October 2023

Led the Insights team and drove the product strategy for a 4 member PM team for AI-enabled features within
QuickBooks Online (QBO) driving Advanced subscription growth by 4X. 

Drove the ideation to launch of Custom Reports Builder, a querying and reporting tool that resulted in 80%
engagement from users and contributed to transitioning 60% of legacy reporting features used by 4M+ users.
Conceptualized and launched the Performance Center, delivering proactive insights into KPIs for small
business owners, resulting in 95% positive user feedback and 40% engagement.
Led cross-functional teams to deliver (0-1) advanced data visualization tools that boosted engagement by
users on QBO, directly contributing to revenue growth in mid-market segments.
Developed patent for reporting tool, focusing on new ways to organize data across linked tables for enhanced
user experiences.

Ellie Mae
Product Lead, Data & AI/ML 

June 2017 - July 2019

Responsible for driving EM’s Data & AI / ML efforts across the company working with X-functional product teams

Managed 0-1 development of analytics platform, driving the strategy and roadmap for mortgage industry
analytics products, helping clients make data-driven decisions resulting in ~$6m/yr revenue.
Led the development of AI/ML solutions for the mortgage industry, including a Fair Lending model that
identified potential pricing violations and saved millions in damages.
Spearheaded the ML-based lead prioritization system for Ellie Mae's lead management software, increasing
conversion rates by 30%.

GE Digital
Staff Technical Product Manager

May 2016 - June 2017

Led the Predix Data Science team to build critical AI/ML apps for GE Digital’s clients

Drove the development of predictive maintenance solutions for industrial clients, including a multi-million
dollar project for elevator IoT connectivity, resulting in $2.5M in savings.
Coordinated machine learning and deep learning solutions for GE's industrial cloud platform, Predix, to
improve operational efficiency and reduce downtime.
Developed edge analytics apps to predict supplier delays, saving clients $1.1M in expedited delivery costs.

Zeta Global
Sr. Product Manager

July 2015 - May 2016

Led the team to build critical features for Data Management Paltform (DMP) for a high-growth startup

Created and shipped key features for cross-channel marketing campaigns, including media planning,
analytics reporting, and customer segmentation resulting in 2X customer growth. 
Built analytics for campaign evaluation, improving efficiency and reducing campaign cycle time from 2-3
weeks to 2 days.
Optimized advertiser workflow on the Marketing Cloud and Data Management Platform (DMP), driving
performance improvements and enabling faster campaign execution.

Cognizant Technology Solutions
Product Manager (Consulting)

Aug 2014 - July 2015

Managed product features for Ebay's SMB seller platforms, improving user experience and increasing
segment revenue by 20%.
Led Agile development initiatives to deliver improved user interfaces and reporting solutions for major US
online marketplace clients.

Infosys Inc.
Sr. Software Engineer

Aug 2004 - July 2012

Managed tech support for Apple's Identity Management products, maintaining high CSATs and SLAs.
Led the development of highly scalable applications for Apple and BT, driving customer growth and revenue
with consistent product delivery.
Proposed and executed new client solutions, generating ~$500K in additional revenue and expanding
Infosys's account base.

Carnegie Mellon University, Tepper School of Business
Master of Business Administration in Information Systems, Marketing, and Strategy 

EDUCATION

University of Kerala, TKM College of Engineering 
Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science

Machine Learning  - Stanford University | Product Management - Pragmatic Institute |  PyTorch Certification.
Patent : Org of data from linked tables in an Analytics/ Reporting UI : PR-2312707USPRV · Filed May 26, 2023

CERTIFICATIONS

SKILLS
AI/ ML , C, Gen AI, Agentic AI, Google BigQuery, Java, LLM, Machine Learning, ML infrastructure, Model fine- tuning,
Model integration, NLP, Analytics/ Reporting UI, Performance evaluation, PL/ SQL, Product Management, Prompt
engineering strategies, Python, PyTorch, Splunk, SPSS, SQL, Tableau, TensorFlow, X-functional team leadership

